Hello again you lovely go to people in this video we're going to add jump pads bunny can jump high.
Let's boost bunnies jumps I make Bunny go even higher to do that we can do the following.
First we're going to create a jump Pat scene as you might expect going to use area 2D.
I'm going to only detect players by using lasers and collisions and when I send a signal when the player
enters the area 2D and do a thing with that.
OK.
So that's pretty easy.
We've just done that with the spikes.
We're also going to learn a new node animation player.
Now this isn't the same as animated sprite animation players and gotto are really powerful because you
can animate any property.
And we'll take a look at that a minute.
Then we're going to jump really really really high which is my favorite bit.
So let's get into it.
Hello.
Got a go to create a brand new scene.
And I want the root note to be an area 2D.
So custom node area 2D.
Great.
I want an animated sprite.
I want my nominee is an animated sprite.
So let's go.
Animated sprites do do do they want.
And on the graphics on the items right here.
So what I need to do is click on animated sprite frames and we want to make a new Sprite frame so click
on that then click on sprite frames.
And here we go can call the animation default.
That's fine.
I want to bring in spring and spring in so what I want is this kind of wobbly effect.
And if I press play it's kind of too hectic.
I'm actually gonna lower mine to one second and might be that slow.
Only be one point five on point five seconds feels good.
Now you'll notice that the sprite has two frames at different heights which means it's going to go from
where the center is.
And this spring is gonna go through the floor.
Personally I don't mind that you could go to the offset and go minus 25 or 25 up which improves matters
slightly but I don't want to do that because I want the spring to be where the area 2D is if I start
moving things off center.
I'm gonna make things more complicated for myself.
Okay.
So the next thing we need is a collision shape.
Let's put that in vision.
How do you spell that collision shape 2D they are and that can be a shape a new Rectangle shape zoom
in and just drag the extents to here.
Now we've got this little skewing thing going on here right.
This isn't a symmetrical graphic set.
So I need to move this slightly off center and drag that in for now.
Let's stop that from playing because it's a little confusing.
OK so so far so good.
Right we have a collision shape and we have an animated sprite.
So before we go any further let's rename marriage TV to jump ahead and let's say it this probably needs
a new folder doesn't it.
It's not a level it's not a hazard it's not a place that's make a new folder then right click or you
could click this create follow button and I'm gonna call it items and you can be jump hand TCM.
Great.
Now jump pad needs a script.
A new script goes to items jump had G.D. fantastic.
And here it is also the reason I'm doing that is I want to connect a signal so the jump pattern to create
a signal to itself Let's get a note and let's go to body entered.
Click on that and it's gonna connect to itself on body entered pass.
Great.
Gonna leave that there for now.
Gonna come back to it a bit.
First we need a second animation.
So what I need to do is create a brand new animation in the animated sprite.
So let's go.
New animation.
And Nicole this boost and I could use two for this.
Let's go.
Spring in spring out.
Let's bring in spring in going to click the trash can get a late spring out.
And you know what.
Let's play that now.
It might not show straight away so to show it.
I'm gonna go off the node and back and that'll refresh the resource.
Got a boost and onshore plant buying.
Great.
This one won't loop and you don't miss at this to 2.5.
And let's do that again.
So default boost playing great could possibly go a little faster but it's fine for now.
So what I need to do now is know when to change between them to do that.
Let's make a brand new note as a child a jump pad.
I to make animation class animation player is fantastic.
I can animate any property right.
I can also call functions in my animation which is even better.
We're going to do that when we come to coins.
Let's make this really simple.
First thing I need to do is create an animation.
And what I will do here is have an animation that triggers the boost animation waits a couple of seconds
and then brings it back.
So let's go to animation and click on the button and do new what I mean to call it boost.
It's fine.
So right now we have a one second animation.
I want this to be a bit longer.
I think two seconds is good.
So over here by the clock I can go right to and now going to add a track.
If I click on a track I see all these things.
I want a property track click on property and it can say what node is gonna be animated.
The animation sprite great.
What property of it.
And look here all the properties that has access to.
And I want animation some.
So now what's going to happen is I can trigger when these animations will change.
So if I right click on this animation track and do insert key.
Now let's double click on the key and the value says default cameras change the value to boost.
And that's going to keep playing for one point five seconds.
I want to right click again and press Insert key and it's put the same value in right.
So if I click here still boost and this line here means all of this is one animations for press play.
It should work isn't working.
Let's put on playing that again.
And now when I go back to my animation player for press play okay.
So how I know it's working well on two seconds let's make a brand new key Insert key and a click on
the key and switch this to default.
And now in a press play
it goes back to the other one.
This is going to be really handy.
All I need to do is tell the animation player.
Play this animation boost when the body enters.
Okay.
Let's go into the script to see how that works.
First let's get the animation player so animation player.
There it is.
Dot.
Play.
Boost.
Perfect.
Look at that.
And it'll play once while at play once.
Cause I'm not looping it.
If I wanted it to loop I'd press this.
I don't want us to be looping animation that's gonna be weird so it'll play once and then it's gonna
go back to the previous state.
Then I want to tell the body
to run a function called Boost which we're gonna have to write in a moment before we go any further.
Let's actually put this on the right collision.
So let's look at our layers what we've got here we've got terrain hazards we need a new LED oasis but
some left for Project settings and scroll down to layer names.
Here we go.
Judy.
Judy physics and left for is going to be items.
Great.
OK so now when I come back to it I can go to items.
You're not a player you're not terrain you're not hazards you are items and you can only interact with
a player just to make it really safe.
Let's go to the player scene and make sure
that the player can interact with terrain hazards and items.
OK.
So there's no possibility of us missing it.
Let's say that scene close it.
All right.
So now the play going to enter here.
It's going to run a function called Boost which will have to play and it's gonna play the animation.
Right.
OK.
So let's put that script him.
I've got to play a script here.
But if you don't get a level one open a script there it is.
First thing to do is decide how much higher in boots.
I would say that boosting is like jumping twice as high.
I could do this as a constant like this boost multiplier or if you prefer you could do it as an export
variable.
The only real advantage to me is next what variable is it lets you tweak it pretty easily here.
Personally I don't think I need to do that.
I to put as a constant but if you wanted to you could get constant boost multi player.
There we go.
Multiplier.
I think it is.
I have to check.
I checked it.
It is it's good.
OK.
So here's my boost multiplier.
Now let's get a functional boost function boost.
I don't need to call any kind of argument in all I need is motion dot Y minus equals jump speed multiplied
by boost multiplier.
Okay so this should work in order to do that we need to put in an actual item so let's get to level
1 and let's create another one of these organizing nodes.
So a simple note I want to move that to here's the rule one place and I'm gonna call this item's jump
had some Nicholas jump has
and now let's instance one in 7 press the little instance button go to find a jump pad and make sure
of a move and just drag this to as a good place how about here.
This is a good place great.
And let's just make sure that is actually playing the animation we want.
It is great.
OK.
So now when I get to this jump pad it should throw means the let's find out.
So let's press play and go into full screen mode and what we'll find is this will work some of the time
right.
So if I jump into it that's really high.
I might be too high.
It didn't work that time.
Right.
So why is it working sometimes but not others.
Well the reason is exactly the same as the previous problem.
Right the heart problem essentially we're on the floor and every frame motion that Y is being set zero.
So we need to get off the floor.
Stop physics for frame and then move.
So let's just copy those over and while we're at it I think too might be a little bit high at one point
five.
There we go.
Let's try that again so let's make our way over there to do and land on it.
Perfect.
Not touching the keyboard it's just boosting every time.
And that is one point five times higher than a standard jump.
Awesome.
So now we have working jump pads which brings me to the challenge.
Nice and fun challenge this one put jump pads on your level and feel free to edit your level and at
the tarmac move the spikes around soon we'll be adding coins.
So make this is as fun and as bouncy and as dangerous as you like.
Pause the video give it a shot when you come back.
Put a couple more jump pads into my level
and welcome back OK more jump pads I like this bit.
So I get a 2D view and I'm going to duplicate my jump pad jump at too great and jump that to you live
over here.
That's a good place for you and jump had three you live was a good place for jump had three.
I feel like I feel like there's actually not a lot of room round here.
You know what.
When I met Tom up on remove this tile entirely by right clicking it.
OK.
So now jump had three men to move you two over here and this spike needs to move doesn't it.
So it's got hazards.
Which one is this Spike.
Spike one.
Perfect.
Spike one you can live right here.
So I've got a nice big jump here.
I think it might actually make that jump let's find out oh nonexistent function boost on tarmac.
Apparently I've got to mess this up so let's go to my Tom Atlas look at my collision you are on terrain
you can touch the players.
OK.
Lets go of my jump pants.
My jump pads have the wrong collision.
I thought I fix this cyclic.
No apparently didn't.
OK jump pads it slipped my jump pants
for some reason jump pads 2 or three didn't get the right collision ever so let's just slip them both
and give them the right collision.
So your items and you can interact with players however we can also put some error checking in here.
So let's go into the script and just do this.
If body DOT has methods boost
and this way we can just check whatever's coming in has that method.
So this is a good way of fixing that bug as well let's give that a shot.
OK.
So yeah that looks great.
Whoa.
OK.
So apparently I can add in the jump and the boost and the pain all in one go.
But if I just end to this it should work fine.
Look at this we now have working jump hats which brings us the end of this video in this video with
created jump pants.
We've learned how to use animation plan notes and we've jumped really high which is my favorite bit.
Don't forget to share how your levels are going I'm really curious to see what you guys have made.
Meanwhile great stuff.
And I'll see you in the next video.